(Power-saving mode off)
(Options > Settings > Simple Table)
(Main > Options > Battle)

Slide 1:
Last summer would probably hard-code commands. Now just have to make this table
(show on screen) and I can say all these commands.

-"attack with a sword"
-"hit the troll using something sharp"
-"fight with a hammer and then heal with a potion"
-"launch an assault using a sword and a hammer and then recover"

(Remember to toggle complex battle table back on)

[4 minutes]

So, what is my project?
Explain CLEARLY!
Project was to create a text-based role-playing game, but to decrease the
workload as much as possible.

...
Three key areas for improving RPG development
Obstacles that add to developer time
avoid menus, voice commands mapping - main focus
room gneration easier - minor exploration
Other was oibject properties -minor exaploration

[2 minutes]

What if want ot say commands in various ways, synonyms

Show hard-coded, regex; online APIs need money

Offline solution

Explain two modes to RPG, designed to demonstrate power of the system.

[Switch to overworld (puzzle room for presentation)]

Demonstrate commands:

- "smash the table"
- "observe the surroundings"
- Two objects on the table, multiple targets: "pick up the potion and the knife"
- "look at the mirror"
- "show my inventory"
- "smash the pot with something heavy"
- "use the key to unlock the door"
- "attack with the sword"
- "hit the troll using the blade"

How it works?

Heart of solution is semantic similairty with wordnet

Explain WordNet (used to find similar words)

How does it work? (slot-filling, context action map)
- show data flow diagram and process input diagram
- LOTS of diagrams here

Explain use of semantic similarity to find similar words
semantic simiarlity methods (show performances, accuracy, speed)
When talking about speed, talk about being completlely offline


Explain how slot-filling grammar designed for imperatives
explain sentence matching
- show screenshot of adding sentence matches
- "what items do i have in my possession"
- "what type of actions can i perform"

Applied to other domains (demo video conferencing)

Also explored other areas (take previous slide and bold other two points)

Object properties:
- "Attack with something sharp"

(Go back to main room)

"cut the table"
"break the table"
- Explain how painting is set manually to not be broken

Room Generation:
Explain use of semantic similairity:

Live demo:
(Type description with object file. Load into Room01, build and run)

(As it's building, explain binary relationships)

Deliverables:

Questions: